A data science project on applying anomaly detection techniques on the website streaming dataset to discover abnormal data samples

# Feature explorative ideas

1. Plot all data points

The pattern of the entire dataset looks two-phase splitted. Before 2/25/2014, all data points oscillates between 40 and 55, while after 2/25/2014 they shifted downward and oscillates between 35 and 40.

2. Try to generate 4 new features:
	- the hour in timestamp
	- whether the data point is during daylight
	- the day of the week
	- whether the data point is a week day
	
3. Plot values that are during day and during night respectively

4. Plot values that are during weekday and weekends

	It can be observed that both Value frequencies during weekends and weekdays conform to normal distributions. During weekends, the bell shape peaks at 42, while during weekdays it shifts a little bit and peaks at 38

5. Plot value distribution histogram of all combinations of day/night and weekday/weekend

# Anomaly Detection Modeling

Isolation forest, one class SVM and local outlier factor are respectively used to conduct anomaly detection on the CPU utilization data.

For each model, the input dataset has been standardized using StandardScaler on the below attributes:
- value
- hours
- daylight
- day of the week
- is week day or not

The models predict anomalies on the dataset, and a scattered chart is plotted for each model on all the normal data points and anomaly data points, with X-axis being the date, and Y-axis being the CPU utilization value.

Besides, a histogram is plotted to visualize the frequency distribution of normal value data and anomaly value data, so that it could be observed in which distribution bins do the anomalies come from.

It could be observed that anomalies generated by isolation forest are mainly distributed in higher value bins. Anomalies by one class SVM scatter across all value bins rather evenly, and those generated by local outlier factor tend to gather around lower value bins.


